charts/kubernetes-external-secrets/README.md, before:

# 💂 Kubernetes External Secrets

[Kubernetes External Secrets](https://github.com/godaddy/kubernetes-external-secrets) allows you to use external secret management systems (*e.g.*, [AWS Secrets Manager](https://aws.amazon.com/secrets-manager/)) to securely add secrets in Kubernetes. Read more about the design and motivation for Kubernetes External Secrets on the [GoDaddy Engineering Blog](https://godaddy.github.io/2019/04/16/kubernetes-external-secrets/).

## TL;DR;

```bash
$ helm install stable/kubernetes-external-secrets
```

## Prerequisites

* Kubernetes 1.7+

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release named `my-release`:

```bash
$ helm install --name my-release stable/kubernetes-external-secrets
```

> **Tip:** A namespace can be specified by the `Helm` option '`--namespace kube-external-secrets`'

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the deployment:

```bash
helm delete my-release
```

## Configuration

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the `kubernetes-external-secrets` chart and their default values.

| Parameter                            | Description                                                  | Default                                                 |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `env.AWS_REGION`                     | Set AWS_REGION in Deployment Pod                             | `us-west-2`                                             |
| `env.POLLER_INTERVAL_MILLISECONDS`   | Set POLLER_INTERVAL_MILLISECONDS in Deployment Pod           | `10000`                                                 |
| `envVarsFromSecret.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`     | Set AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID (from a secret) in Deployment Pod      |                                                         |
| `envVarsFromSecret.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` | Set AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY (from a secret) in Deployment Pod  |                                                         |
| `image.repository`                   | kubernetes-external-secrets Image name                       | `godaddy/kubernetes-external-secrets`                   |
| `image.tag`                          | kubernetes-external-secrets Image tag                        | `1.3.1`                                                 |
| `image.pullPolicy`                   | Image pull policy                                            | `IfNotPresent`                                          |
| `nameOverride`                   | Override the name of app                                            | `nil`                                          |
| `fullnameOverride`                   | Override the full name of app                                            | `nil`                                          |
| `rbac.create`                        | Create & use RBAC resources                                  | `true`                                                  |
| `serviceAccount.create`              | Whether a new service account name should be created.        | `true`                                                  |
| `serviceAccount.name`                | Service account to be used.                                  | automatically generated
| `podAnnotations`                     | Annotations to be added to pods                              | `{}`                                                    |
| `replicaCount`                       | Number of replicas                                           | `1`                                                     |
| `nodeSelector`                       | node labels for pod assignment                               | `{}`                                                    |
| `tolerations`                        | List of node taints to tolerate (requires Kubernetes >= 1.6) | `[]`                                                    |
| `affinity`                           | Affinity for pod assignment                                  | `{}`                                                    |
| `resources`                          | Pod resource requests & limits                               | `{}`                                                    |

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`. For example,

```bash
helm install stable/kubernetes-external-secrets --name my-releases \
--set env.POLLER_INTERVAL_MILLISECONDS='300000' \
--set podAnnotations."iam\.amazonaws\.com/role"='Name-Of-IAM-Role-With-SecretManager-Access'
```

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```bash
helm install stable/kubernetes-external-secrets --name my-release -f values.yaml
```

> **Tip**: You can use the default [values.yaml](values.yaml)

## Add a secret

Add your secret data to your backend. For example, AWS Secrets Manager:

```
aws secretsmanager create-secret --name hello-service/password --secret-string "1234"
```

and then create a `hello-service-external-secret.yml` file:

```yml
apiVersion: 'kubernetes-client.io/v1'
kind: ExternalSecret
metadata:
  name: hello-service
secretDescriptor:
  backendType: secretsManager
  data:
    - key: hello-service/password
      name: password
```

Save the file and run:

```sh
kubectl apply -f hello-service-external-secret.yml
```

Wait a few minutes and verify that the associated `Secret` has been created:

```sh
kubectl get secret hello-service -o=yaml
```

The `Secret` created by the controller should look like:

```yml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: hello-service
type: Opaque
data:
  password: MTIzNA==
```

## Further Information

For more in-depth documentation of usage, please see the [Kubernetes External Secrets repo](https://github.com/godaddy/kubernetes-external-secrets)

Commit message:

feat: basic metrics (#147)
* feat: basic metrics

Signed-off-by: Moritz Johner <beller.moritz@googlemail.com>

* chore: update chart docs & env vars

charts/kubernetes-external-secrets/README.md, after:

# 💂 Kubernetes External Secrets

[Kubernetes External Secrets](https://github.com/godaddy/kubernetes-external-secrets) allows you to use external secret management systems (*e.g.*, [AWS Secrets Manager](https://aws.amazon.com/secrets-manager/)) to securely add secrets in Kubernetes. Read more about the design and motivation for Kubernetes External Secrets on the [GoDaddy Engineering Blog](https://godaddy.github.io/2019/04/16/kubernetes-external-secrets/).

## TL;DR;

```bash
$ helm install stable/kubernetes-external-secrets
```

## Prerequisites

* Kubernetes 1.7+

## Installing the Chart

To install the chart with the release named `my-release`:

```bash
$ helm install --name my-release stable/kubernetes-external-secrets
```

> **Tip:** A namespace can be specified by the `Helm` option '`--namespace kube-external-secrets`'

## Uninstalling the Chart

To uninstall/delete the deployment:

```bash
helm delete my-release
```

## Configuration

The following table lists the configurable parameters of the `kubernetes-external-secrets` chart and their default values.

| Parameter                            | Description                                                  | Default                                                 |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `env.AWS_REGION`                     | Set AWS_REGION in Deployment Pod                             | `us-west-2`                                             |
| `env.LOG_LEVEL`                           | Set the application log level                                | `info`                                                  |
| `env.METRICS_PORT`                        | Specify the port for the prometheus metrics server           | `3001`                                                  |
| `env.POLLER_INTERVAL_MILLISECONDS`   | Set POLLER_INTERVAL_MILLISECONDS in Deployment Pod           | `10000`                                                 |
| `envVarsFromSecret.AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`     | Set AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID (from a secret) in Deployment Pod      |                                                         |
| `envVarsFromSecret.AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` | Set AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY (from a secret) in Deployment Pod  |                                                         |
| `image.repository`                   | kubernetes-external-secrets Image name                       | `godaddy/kubernetes-external-secrets`                   |
| `image.tag`                          | kubernetes-external-secrets Image tag                        | `1.3.1`                                                 |
| `image.pullPolicy`                   | Image pull policy                                            | `IfNotPresent`                                          |
| `nameOverride`                   | Override the name of app                                            | `nil`                                          |
| `fullnameOverride`                   | Override the full name of app                                            | `nil`                                          |
| `rbac.create`                        | Create & use RBAC resources                                  | `true`                                                  |
| `serviceAccount.create`              | Whether a new service account name should be created.        | `true`                                                  |
| `serviceAccount.name`                | Service account to be used.                                  | automatically generated
| `podAnnotations`                     | Annotations to be added to pods                              | `{}`                                                    |
| `replicaCount`                       | Number of replicas                                           | `1`                                                     |
| `nodeSelector`                       | node labels for pod assignment                               | `{}`                                                    |
| `tolerations`                        | List of node taints to tolerate (requires Kubernetes >= 1.6) | `[]`                                                    |
| `affinity`                           | Affinity for pod assignment                                  | `{}`                                                    |
| `resources`                          | Pod resource requests & limits                               | `{}`                                                    |

Specify each parameter using the `--set key=value[,key=value]` argument to `helm install`. For example,

```bash
helm install stable/kubernetes-external-secrets --name my-releases \
--set env.POLLER_INTERVAL_MILLISECONDS='300000' \
--set podAnnotations."iam\.amazonaws\.com/role"='Name-Of-IAM-Role-With-SecretManager-Access'
```

Alternatively, a YAML file that specifies the values for the parameters can be provided while installing the chart. For example,

```bash
helm install stable/kubernetes-external-secrets --name my-release -f values.yaml
```

> **Tip**: You can use the default [values.yaml](values.yaml)

## Add a secret

Add your secret data to your backend. For example, AWS Secrets Manager:

```
aws secretsmanager create-secret --name hello-service/password --secret-string "1234"
```

and then create a `hello-service-external-secret.yml` file:

```yml
apiVersion: 'kubernetes-client.io/v1'
kind: ExternalSecret
metadata:
  name: hello-service
secretDescriptor:
  backendType: secretsManager
  data:
    - key: hello-service/password
      name: password
```

Save the file and run:

```sh
kubectl apply -f hello-service-external-secret.yml
```

Wait a few minutes and verify that the associated `Secret` has been created:

```sh
kubectl get secret hello-service -o=yaml
```

The `Secret` created by the controller should look like:

```yml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: hello-service
type: Opaque
data:
  password: MTIzNA==
```

## Further Information

For more in-depth documentation of usage, please see the [Kubernetes External Secrets repo](https://github.com/godaddy/kubernetes-external-secrets)
